

This a model from the article:  
** A theoretical study on activation of transcription factor modulated by intracellular Ca2+ oscillations. **   
Zhu CL, Zheng Y, Jia Y _Biophys. Chem._[2007 Aug:129(1):49-55
[17560007](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17560007),  
**Abstract:**   
This work presents both deterministic and stochastic models of genetic
expression modulated by intracellular calcium (Ca2+) oscillations, based on
macroscopic differential equations and chemical Langevin equations,
respectively. In deterministic case, the oscillations of intracellular Ca2+
decrease the effective Ca2+ threshold for the activation of transcriptional
activator (TF-A). The average activation of TF-A increases with the increase
of the average amplitude of intracellular Ca2+ oscillations, but decreases
with the increase of the period of intracellular Ca2+ oscillations, which are
qualitatively consistent with the experimental results on the gene expression
in lymphocytes. In stochastic case, it is found that a large internal
fluctuation of the biochemical reaction can enhance gene expression efficiency
specifically at a low level of external stimulations or at a small rate of
TF-A dimer phosphorylation activated by Ca2+, which reduces the threshold of
the average intracellular Ca2+ concentration for gene expression.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2009 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Nov√®re N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M.(2006) BioModels Database: A Free, Centralized
Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of Biochemical and
Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://www.pubmedcentral.
nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)

